             Traffic congestion on road networks is nothing but slower speeds, increased trip time and increased queuing/jam of the vehicles. When the number of vehicles moving on road exceeds the capacity of the road, the issue of traffic congestion occurs. In the metropolitan cities of India traffic congestion is a major problem. Traffic congestion is caused when the demand exceeds the available capacity of road. This is known as Saturation. Individual incidents such as accidents or sudden braking of a car in a smooth flow of heavy traffic have adverse effects and are main cause of traffic jams. There are even severe security problems in traffic system due to anti-social elements which also leads to block of traffic at one place. 
             A city consists of many interdependent subsystems where traffic system is one of its important one. An article says; traffic management is the cornerstone of the world’s economy. Moreover, it is also considered as one of the major dimensions of the smart city. With the rapid growth of the world’s population, the number of vehicles on roadways are increasing subsequently, also the rate of traffic congestion is increasing in the same manner. In country like India, there is an annual loss of Rs 60,000 crores due to congestion (including fuel wastage). Congestion in India has also led to slow speeds of freight vehicles, and increased waiting time at checkpoints and toll plazas. The average speed of vehicles on key corridors like Mumbai-Chennai, Delhi-Chennai is less than 20kmph, while it is mere 21.35kmph on Delhi-Mumbai stretch. As per the transport corporation of India and IIM, India’s freight volume is increasing annually. Traffic jams are not only just wasting citizen’s time but also witnessed some criminal activities like mobile snatching at traffic signals which also happen in metropolitan cities. On the other hand, it is not only affecting the ecosystem badly but on the other hand industry’s efficiency is also being affected. It is, therefore, identified that there is a necessity of active traffic management. 
             In majority countries, traffic is managed through fixed time signals whereas, in large cities of some developed countries, traffic is managed through centrally controlled systems. Internet of Thing (IoT) has been introduced to improve efficiency in traffic management systems. To the best of our knowledge, it is identified that till date the current traffic management systems are centralized. System’s servers may crash in case of network issues. In addition, there is less focus on fluctuations in traffic flow. Therefore, the proposed system manages the traffic on local and centralized servers by applying the concepts of IoT and Artificial Intelligence together. The representation of traffic data in statistical form can also be helpful to authorities for real-time controlling and managing traffic. Moreover, it may also be helpful for future planning. 
